# Gettext Functions




<div class="phpcode"><span class="html">
As some of you have mentioned, you must have the locales compiled on your system first. How this is done is depending on your system/distribution *sigh*<br><br>In every case you need to have gettext installed on your system. Users running a Linux with a recent version of libc will have gettext in libc already.<br><br>Here&apos;s an example for those of you running Ubuntu Edgy.<br><br>First of all, have a look in /usr/share/i18n/SUPPORTED, here are the locales that are supported on your system. To compile a locale we will use the command &quot;locale-gen&quot;. (&quot;man 8 locale-gen&quot; is good reading)<br><br>This command reads configuration from files in the folder /var/lib/locales/supported.d/ In these files the locales and charsets are defined.<br><br>If we take swedish as an example, start by creating a file called &quot;sv&quot; in /var/lib/locales/supported.d/ and then put in something like &quot;sv_SE.UTF8 UTF8&quot; (without the &quot; &quot;) This says that we want the locale sv_SE to be built with charmap UTF-8. Check the file /usr/share/i18n/SUPPORTED for other alternatives.<br><br>Now we run &quot;locale-gen&quot; which will compile all locales defined in /var/lib/locales/supported.d/ and put them in /usr/lib/locales (yes that&apos;s a lot of locations...)<br><br>Now you&apos;re ready to go...<br><br>Create a php-file (e.g. hello.php) where all strings you want to translate are surrounded with _(&quot;string here&quot;);<br><br>next run &quot;xgettext hello.php&quot;, this creates a file called messages.po, which is you translation-file (pot). Change the &quot;Content-Type: text/plain; charset=CHARSET\n&quot; in this file and replace CHARSET with UTF-8 in this case. Next translate all strings like this.<br><br>#: hello.php:3<br>msgid &quot;hello!&quot;<br>msgstr &quot;hej!&quot;<br><br>Save and use the command &quot;msgfmt -o hello.mo messages.po&quot; which will create a compiled .mo file called hello.mo<br><br>This file is then placed in a directory structure somewhere your Apache can read it. The structure looks like this:<br><br>&quot;locale/sv/LC_MESSAGES/hello.mo&quot;<br><br>Next, let php know what we&apos;re doing. We point to where we have our translations. Add the following at the top of hello.php<br><br>bindtextdomain(&apos;hello&apos;,&apos;/somepath/locale&apos;);<br><br>This binds the file hello.mo to the locale/ directory you created.<br>Then set the locale. LC_ALL tells that we want everything translated. Might not be good at all times, as another person here suggested.<br><br>setlocale(LC_ALL, &quot;sv_SE.UTF-8&quot;);<br><br>Finally select the that we want to use hello.mo <br><br>textdomain(&apos;hello&apos;);<br><br>That should be it! Try it out..<br><br>If you get any problems try restarting Apache as it seems to cache the locales.<br><br>If you are running command line you might have to set the environment variable LANGUAGE to your locale as well. I didn&apos;t have to do that to get it working in apache though, but you might...<br><br>putenv(&quot;LANGUAGE=sv_SE.UTF-8&quot;);</span>
</div>
  

#

[Official documentation page](https://www.php.net/manual/en/ref.gettext.php)

**[To root](/README.md)**